#+LaTeX_CLASS: mycustom 

#+TITLE: Shift Register Business Sign
#+AUTHOR: Alvi Ahmed

*Status:* Completed
*Type:* Personal Project


* Overview

Created an LED sign capable of different patterns and functionalities
using nothing but glue logic and passive components.  

The user is able to input there own patterns that can flash across the
LEDs or have a default pattern show up on the sign, in the case the
user does not have time to input there own patterns

The user can also control how fast the LEDs light up. 

Since I wanted to challenge myself to build this sign from scratch, I
hand soldered the leds together in a certain array where there are 2
sections present.   

The schematics for both the control board and the led array can be
seen below

* Initial Plan 

The goal of this project was to create a sign that could catch the
customers attention and direct the customers attention to the
promotional offer.

Therefore the sign will have two areas, the main square part where all
the leds and the main message will go.

And a second part off to the side of the main square, which is a bit
longer than the message square in order to fit the size of the
receipt.

I made the sign orange in order to match the colours of the company,
and I chose blue leds, since blue and orange complement each
other. Thus making the sign stand out more.  


[[file:pizzapizza%20ad%20measurements.png]] 

Image of the measurements of the sign 



* Schematics 

[[file:images/controlboard.png]]

This is an image of the schematic that was eventually developed for
the sign.  

[[file:images/ledarrayschematic.png]] 

This is an image of the schematic that used for the hand made led
array 

* Demo Results 

** First Demo 

Video of the first demo can be seen here: [[https://youtu.be/cdphiLlvBuQ]] 


** Second Demo
 
You may have noticed that in the previous showcase, the leds are very
bright. To make this sign more user friendly I added foam on top of
the leds in order to diffuse and dim the light. Also everything is now
attached to perf board and the result is a small control board for the
sign. Unfortunately, my AND gate was damaged so I couldn't use the
repeat function for the user input, but the default mode works fine.  


Video of the second demo can be seen here: [[https://youtu.be/onT0IpOB7MI]] 

It has been about a week that the sign was in the shop, it was
successful in getting the customers attention however there have been
a few downsides:   

 - It is heavy and bulky due to the huge battery pack and perboard
 - Sometimes it can be a bit finicky, when ever it gets slightly
   bumped or the wires are touched, the pattern jumps a little bit or flickers
 - Drains through power quickly  

My next plan for this project will be to buy an addressable led or
even an RGB led strip and program it with an atmega328p. It has been
fun building this whole sign from scratch but the sign is unreliable
and doesn't last for long. Hopefully with being able to use a
microcontroller and an led strip I will be able to save on power and
make everything more stable and less finicky. 




** Demo of Different Version of Sign 

Link to code for this type of sign:
https://github.com/AlviAhmed/rgb_sign 

This project is a project between the Shift-Register-Sign and my next
planned project which are addressable rgb led strips. The store needed
a sign quickly and since my shift register sign had a lot of bugs
(mainly due to the finicky nature of hardware). I needed a stable
option. In this project I made a sign that simply faded in and out of
colours as simple as possible. 

Video of the third demo: https://youtu.be/e46bOLZom4c

* Conclusion 

For now this project will be shelved, I will continue this project
once I learn more about programming in AVR. Instead of going through
the headache of soldering my own leds one by one, as well as soldering
the shift registers and other ICs, I will be using an addressable RGB
ledstrip. This along with programming everything with the AVR, will
save me a lot of time and will also reduce the space taken up on the
sign. For my first time using just logic and hardware it was a great
experience! 




All the files in this repository has been licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
